A is the 13th studio album by British rock band Jethro Tull. It was released on 2
9 August 1980 in the UK and 1 September of the same year in the United States. Th
e album was initially written and recorded with the intention of being frontman I
an Anderson's debut solo album (hence the album's title: the master tapes were ma
rked "A" for Anderson during recording), however the album was eventually release
d as a Jethro Tull album after pressure from Chrysalis Records. Anderson has sinc
e stated that he regrets allowing the album to be released under the Jethro Tull 
name. Musically, the album was a departure from prior Tull works, adopting more o
f an electronic rock sound with heavy use of synthesizers, although still retaini
ng the band's trademark folk influence and Anderson's flute playing. Lyrically, t
he album saw a similar departure from the fantasy and folklore themes of previous
 Tull work, instead emphasizing contemporary matters such as the Cold War. The al
bum was the first Tull album released following a large lineup change which saw d
rummer Barrie "Barriemore" Barlow and keyboardists John Evan and Dee Palmer depar
ting the band in 1980 while bassist John Glascock had died from heart complicatio
ns the previous year. The album instead features Glascock's touring replacement D
ave Pegg on bass in his first recorded appearance with the band, Mark Craney on d
rums and Eddie Jobson on keyboards (with Jobson credited as a "special guest") an
d electric violin. == Overview == A was recorded as an intended Ian Anderson solo
 album before Tull's record label, Chrysalis, asked that it become credited to th
e group. This is the reason for the album's title, as the tapes were marked "A" f
or "Anderson". It is noted for its more synthesiser-based sound, a fact which cre
ated controversy among many of the band's fans. On the other hand, it features a 
folk-influenced piece, "The Pine Marten's Jig". A features a dramatically differe
nt line-up of Tull from the band's previous album, Stormwatch (1979). Former keyb
oardist John Evan and organist Dee Palmer were fired from the group, while drumme
r Barriemore Barlow left the band due to depression over the death of John Glasco
ck as well as plans to start his own band. The only members of Tull to appear on 
both Stormwatch (1979) and A (1980) are Ian Anderson and Martin Barre. This is al
so bassist Dave Pegg's first appearance on a Tull studio recording, but he had be
come a member of the band during the Stormwatch tour in 1979, replacing the decea
sed Glascock. Conflicting reasons have been given for the line-up change. Anderso
n has stated that he wanted to take the band in a different direction from the fo
lk rock and progressive rock of the 1970s.A New Day Yesterday: The 25th Anniversa
ry Collection, 1969–1994 Barriemore Barlow was unhappy with the direction the ban
d was taking and later stated that he would have left anyway. However, biographer
 David Rees reports in his book Minstrels in the Gallery: A History of Jethro Tul
l (2001) that Anderson had never intended to replace Jethro Tull's previous line-
up with the musicians who recorded A, but was forced by Chrysalis Records, which 
had decided to release his 'solo' album under the name Jethro Tull. This claim wa
s further evidenced by Anderson's note in the 2003 re-release of the album. A 40t
h anniversary box set was released in April 2021, featuring the album remixed by 
Steven Wilson. It includes some bonus tracks, a DVD of Slipstream, and audio of a
 concert in Los Angeles. == Track listing == *The 2004 remastered two-disc editio
n includes Slipstream as a bonus DVD. === 2021 40th Anniversary A La Mode Edition
 === == Personnel == Jethro Tull * Ian Anderson – vocals, flute * Martin Barre – 
guitar * Dave Pegg – bass guitar, mandolin * Mark Craney – drums Additional perso
nnel * Eddie Jobson – keyboards, synthesizer, electric violin on The Pine Marten'
s Jig technical staff * Robin Black – sound engineer * John Shaw – photography * 
Peter Wagg – art direction ==Charts== 1980 chart performance for A Chart (1980) P
eak position Australian Albums (Kent Music Report) 47 2021 chart performance for 
A Chart (2021) Peak position == References == == External links == * * (Bonus DVD
) Category:Jethro Tull (band) albums Category:1980 albums Category:Chrysalis Reco
rds albums Category:Island Records albums Category:Albums produced by Ian Anderso
n
